# Bob & Rod's VR Carnival


### Introduction
- With Bob&Rod’s, our goal is to simulate the experience of a fun-filled carnival in a VR environment. Not everyone has access to a carnival near them so by recreating this experience in VR we hope to make fun and comforting carnival games more accessible. Each booth is inspired by classic carnival games. At Bob&Rod’s the user is able to enjoy Angry Birds, Put a Ring On It!, and Food Fight. Hitting cans, sliding in rings, and taking down dummy enemies, the user is able to rank up in points to test and perfect their carnival skills. 
- What makes Bob&Rod’s so interesting is the immersive experience and out-of-the-ordinary approaches to classic carnival games. At Angry Birds, the user is able to throw chickens at towers of cans to mimic the idea of the worldwide mobile game phenomenon, Angry Birds. At Put a Ring On It! the user is able to practice proposing to their special someone by throwing a ring on greater-than-life-sized fingers. At Food Fight, the user able to live out their high school fantasy of a high school cafeteria food fight by choosing one of many foodie weapons to fight dummy enemies.
- Bob&Rod’s utilization of VR enhances the carnival gameplay tenfold. Set at the bottom of a scenic mountain range, the user is able to be quickly immersed in the life of a carnival. Placed at the center of the three booths, the user is already provided the space to enjoy the world from all angles. With Angry Birds, the user is able to crash the cans with more than just a wiffle ball. With VR, the classic game of can toss can be viewed in a much more enticing and exciting way by throwing live chickens. With Put a Ring On It!, VR allows developers to take a creative spin on the game of ring toss by replacing the poles with fingers. As for Food Fight, the user must defend themselves from dummy enemies from all angles. With this booth, we are able to take advantage of the space that the VR medium grants us by allowing the user to physically move and rotate. 



### Design
`Landscape Design`
- When designing the world of Bob&Rod’s, it was important to us that despite the short timeline to complete the project, we wanted to ensure the user’s experience is up to par with fully scaled and implemented games. We did this by focussing on world-building. Taking advantage of free assets from the Unity Asset store, we kept close to a low-poly aesthetic by utilizing a handful of assets to build a landscape that encapsulated our carnival. Adding numerous trees, mountain ranges, hot air balloons, and a few clouds, the attention to detail was something we prioritized to grab the attention of the user and increase immersion as well as enjoyment.
`Carnival Design`
- When approaching the games the first thing we had to consider was booth design. We decided to construct the booths from scratch using unity’s 3D GameObjects in conjunction with free downloaded materials and textures from the Unity Asset Store. When designing the booth, we wanted to ensure that the booth itself had an open and dynamic shape. To execute this vision, we made sure to set the pillars at an angle to showcase depth and movement. We also set the front counter to be lower than the rest of the booth so that the player will be able to pick up objects with ease. 
- Designing the layout of each booth followed a similar formula: title at the bottom, eye-catching figures showcasing the game’s theme on top, an array of interactive GameObjects in the front, collision GameObjects in the middle, and game instructions and a scoreboard at the back wall.
- Lastly, we wanted to ensure that the user feels as if they are in for an experience. The second the user presses play, they are greeted with a welcome sign with a star rotating behind it. In addition, the player is also greeted by fun upbeat music we downloaded for fair use from Pixabay called positive-cartoon-loop.

`Control Design`
- Using the Oculus Touch controllers allows users to be completely immersed into the world of Bob&Rod’s. With the Touch controllers, users are able to physically grab rings/chickens/weapons and use them in a way that mimics real life. In addition, by choosing to use the Touch controllers, decreases remapping motor programs in VR. If we were to use a keyboard or a mouse we lose the natural and intuitive, gesture-driven interactions that make VR so immersive. 
- When it comes to mapping controls to actions in the virtual world, the user is able to utilize the Touch controllers just as much as the VR Headset. To traverse through the world, the user is able to move with the left joystick. To rotate the user has two options: to physically move their body or to use the right joystick to look in a certain direction. To grab we attached hands to the user’s controller to simulate the grabbing motion.
- In the effort to replicate the experience of classical carnival games in virtual reality, our game design conformed and broke some VR developer tips. A tip that we made sure to conform to was touching as it relates to selection methodologies. We opted for having objects within local reach meaning that the layout of their colliders accurately conforms to the dimensions of each object. Therefore when a player reaches to grab an object they could only do so within the dimensions of such an object. In addition, we also decided to have naturally mapped hands to not create a sense of discomfort to the users. 
- When implementing movement into our experience we decided to use smooth locomotion. Smooth locomotion is achieved by having the user move using their left and right joystick. Although this type of movement can cause motion sickness for some users, the low-poly game design compensates for this by allowing for optimal frame rate rendering which mitigates motion sickness in users. 
